Add May newsletter (#102)
readthedocs/blog: newsletter-may-2021.rst

.. post:: May 5, 2021
   :tags: newsletter, python
   :author: Juan Luis
   :location: MAD

.. meta::
   :description lang=en:
      Company updates and new features from last month,
      current focus, and upcoming features from May.

Read the Docs newsletter - May 2021
===================================

Welcome to a new edition of our monthly newsletter, where we
openly share the most relevant updates around Read the Docs,
offer a summary of new features we shipped
during the previous month,
and share what we'll be focusing on in the near future.

Company highlights
------------------

-  The team keeps growing! `Ra`_ will join us next week

>    to do account management for EthicalAds.

Reviewer: D: :tada:

.. post:: May 5, 2021
   :tags: newsletter, python
   :author: Juan Luis
   :location: MAD

.. meta::
   :description lang=en:
      Company updates and new features from last month,
      current focus, and upcoming features from May.

Read the Docs newsletter - May 2021
===================================

> Welcome to a new edition of our monthly newsletter, in which we would like to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Welcome to a new edition of our monthly newsletter, where we
```

> openly share with you the most relevant updates of Read the Docs,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
openly share the most relevant updates around Read the Docs,
```

> offer a summary of what new features we shipped to our users

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
offer a summary of new features we shipped
```

during the previous month,

> and share what things we will be focusing on in the near future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and share what we'll be focusing on in the near future.
```

Reviewer 2: Sorry for all the edits -- just trying to make things more concise :)

Author: They're very welcome :)

Company highlights
------------------

-  We reworked our deploy procedure to almost remove the need to interrupt builds.

>    Therefore, you should see less build retries during our deploy timeframe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Therefore, you should see less build retries during our deploy timeframe, normally Tuesday morning Pacific time.
```

-  After some careful deliberation,
   we started the process to `deprecate recommonmark in favor of
   MyST <https://github.com/readthedocs/recommonmark/issues/221>`_,
   a better maintained alternative.
   We are excited to see that
   some projects have already migrated without effort,
   and we are looking forward to helping MyST-Parser thrive!
   Thanks to the Executable Books Project folks for creating this project.

> 

Reviewer 2: Should we mention our frontend position still being open here?

Author: Good catch!

Author: And our new hire?

.. Pageviews stats obtained from Google Analytics, https://readthedocs.io property,
   and divided by the total number of days in the month

New features
------------

-  We improved several areas of our contributor documentation:
   `we added more detailed steps on how to contribute to our
   docs <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/development/docs.html>`_
   (both from the GitHub UI and from your own computer),
   and we expanded our `development installation
   guide <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/development/install.html>`_
   with more clear instructions for static assets

>    and some extra verification procedures.

Reviewer 2: Should we thank the contributors who did this work? Seems useful

-  We rolled up `a new keyword detection algorithm in our ad
   client <https://github.com/readthedocs/ethical-ad-client/pull/48>`_,
   which should make the ads you see more meaningful and useful.

You can always see the latest changes to our platforms in our `Read the Docs
Changelog <https://docs.readthedocs.io/page/changelog.html>`_ and `Ethical Ad Server
Changelog <https://ethical-ad-server.readthedocs.io/page/developer/changelog.html>`_.

Current focus & known issues
----------------------------

-  We are working with the Sphinx maintainers
   to help testing the upcoming Sphinx release
   and decrease the risk of breakage.
   It is an ongoing effort that requires
   finding a balance between stability and maintainability,
   and we hope we can do the best for our users and the Sphinx community.

> -  xxx

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  xxx
- Cloudflare has changed how their SSL works, so we're figuring out how that might impact users of custom domains on our Community site. It will likely only impact projects that are proxying to us, not domains that follow our `recommended custom domain configuration <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/custom_domains.html#custom-domain-support>`_. 
```

Upcoming features
-----------------

> -  xxx

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  xxx
- Eric is focused on onboarding a new hire on our EthicalAds team, finishing a CZI grant proposal for funding in 2021-2022, and figuring out how the team can handle growing from 5 to 8 folks in 2021!
```
